---
title: "Analyzing Gender Representation in Multilingual Models"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/multiligngual_gender
excerpt: 'Multilingual language models were shown to allow for nontrivial transfer across scripts and languages. In this work, we study the structure of the internal representations that enable this transfer. We focus on the representation of gender distinctions as a practical case study, and examine the extent to which the gender concept is encoded in shared subspaces across different languages. Our analysis shows that gender representations consist of several prominent components that are shared across languages, alongside language-specific components. The existence of language-independent and language-specific components provides an explanation for an intriguing empirical observation we make: while gender classification transfers well across languages, interventions for gender removal, trained on a single language, do not transfer easily to others.'
venue: RepL4NLP workshop at ACL
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.09168'
---

Hila Gonen, Shauli Ravfogel and Yoav Goldberg.

Multilingual language models were shown to allow for nontrivial transfer across scripts and languages. In this work, we study the structure of the internal representations that enable this transfer. We focus on the representation of gender distinctions as a practical case study, and examine the extent to which the gender concept is encoded in shared subspaces across different languages. Our analysis shows that gender representations consist of several prominent components that are shared across languages, alongside language-specific components. The existence of language-independent and language-specific components provides an explanation for an intriguing empirical observation we make: while gender classification transfers well across languages, interventions for gender removal, trained on a single language, do not transfer easily to others.

[Paper available here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.09168)

[Code available here](https://github.com/gonenhila/multilingual_gender)


Cite: Hila Gonen, Shauli Ravfogel and Yoav Goldberg. 2022. Analyzing Gender Representation in Multilingual Models. In *proceedings of the Representation Learning for NLP workshop*.
